Fixes #19 : Update changelog and pom.xml for 3.0 release (#21)
Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder: CHANGELOG.md

Change Log
==========

3.0 (2025-08-29)
----------------

> Changes :

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a category ? as `Bug fixes` and `Dependency updates` ? If so, just "Changes" is unclear, it could include any kind of changes. I think it could even be split further, or at least it would be `Main changes` (just like in [the release](https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/releases)).

Reviewer: It is containing some behavior changes, which from my readings are often designated as "notable changes" (if they are not "breaking changes"), it could the category could also be named like that

A format that I find very convenient to explain a change is : "... were not functioning properly, now the behavior is ..."

> * The installation and usage instructions in the README have been updated

Reviewer: But the change in README and instructions would not fit as "notable changes", they could be moved to a `Documentation`/`Miscellaneous` category

> * Any node that cannot be imported into Rundeck because it is missing some required attributes produces a warning log and does not prevent valid nodes from being imported

Reviewer: for example : 
> When importing nodes to Rundeck, the process would fail if any of following attributes are empty on a single node : `architectureDescription`, `lastInventoryDate`, etc. Now, all valid nodes will be imported, and any node with missing attributes will be ignored in which case a warning log will be produced.

> * The plugin `.jar` has a size of around ~40MB, which exceeds the maximum file upload size of the Rundeck web interface. The README now contains workarounds to install the plugin

Reviewer: *The workaround to install the plugin are documented in the README

> * The only supported API version is `latest` ; API version 12 is no longer supported (though the format of API v12 / Rudder 6 and up is still compatible).

Reviewer: It is a bit unclear, `latest` is not the "only supported version", if all versions >v12 are compatible. It would be more accurate to say that : the plugin always queries the latest API version of the Rudder instance given with the Rudder base URL parameter. And from the data model we support it is compatible with a Rudder instance with version ≥ 7.

Also, are you sure that `Rudder 6 [...] is still compatible` ? 
It seems to be contradictory from the [2.2 release](https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/releases/tag/2.2) and from the "API version" parameter documentation we had in the plugin : 
> The API version to use for rundeck. You should use 'latest' appart for compat with older Rudder up to 7.x where version should be '12'. 
So, is it not `Rudder 7` ?

Author: The previous version of the README mentions that versions 6.x and up are supported : https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/blob/a33aa96377149ae2a91f8352458a60e21c6dcedb/Readme.md?plain=1#L11
In addition, the code that is used to query the groups API, as well as the nodes API is identical for versions 6.x and up : https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/blob/a33aa96377149ae2a91f8352458a60e21c6dcedb/src/main/scala/com/normation/rundeck/plugin/resources/rudder/RudderAPIQuery.scala#L70
Does this not mean that the plugin is still compatible with Rudder 6 ? (Is there documentation for which API versions are supported for each Rudder version ?)

Reviewer: The documentation may be not up-to-date, the only way to know for sure is to try the API (v12 and up), it seems that the release 2.2 specifies that it's guaranteed for 7.X, and not for 6 : https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/releases/tag/2.2

Reviewer: Yes there is this documentation of all Rudder versions and API versions : 
https://docs.rudder.io/api/#section/Introduction/Versioning

> * The project now has a CI pipeline with Github actions (see [ maven.yml](https://github.com/Normation/rundeck-plugin-rudder/actions/workflows/maven.yml)). Its purpose is to build the project every time a PR or branch is updated

Reviewer: Yes, but I find this to be more suited to belong in the same category as "maven" and dependencies/build stuff

Author: Should this whole block be moved into the Dependencies/build updates ? Or maybe only lines 10 and 12 (as lines 9 and 11 document functionality changes)?

Bug fixes :

> * The plugin `.jar` was missing a slf4j logger implementation. hence, the slf4j-simple implementation has been added to the dependencies. by default the minimum log level is INFO, and it can be customised by adding a property to the JVM : `-Dorg.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel=debug`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The plugin `.jar` was missing a slf4j logger implementation, so logs were not produced. The slf4j-simple implementation has now been added to the dependencies. By default the minimum log level is INFO, and it can be customised by adding a property to the JVM : `-Dorg.slf4j.simpleLogger.defaultLogLevel=debug`
```

> * The `refreshInterval` parameter was not compatible with later rundeck versions (the Rudder nodes and groups were systematically refreshed regardless of the specified interval). This has been fixed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `refreshInterval` parameter was not compatible with later Rundeck versions (the Rudder nodes and groups were systematically refreshed regardless of the specified interval). This has now been fixed
```

Dependency updates :
* bump JDK to v11
* bump Scala to 3.7.1
* bump Maven to 3.9.11
* bump rundeck-core to v4.0.0-0322

> * replace old/deprecated/vulnerable dependencies

Reviewer: I think that should go first in the change log : the order of changes is also important, and the first reported changes are the most important ones.

I think that since it's a CHANGELOG.md that people look for in the source code, the aspects of the new development and release workflows are the first most important ones.

So here it would be the dependencies updates, that are workflow-impacting changes, more that bumping versions : 
1. Upgrade to Scala 3.7.1
2. Replace the previous dependencies with a ZIO stack (zio, zio-json, zio-http)
3. Update the maven build (enforce code formatting with a basic scalafmt, tests executions)
 ...

(`Dependencies and build updates` may be more suited)
